Used OpenRefine for the Data Cleaning Process
1. On 'Zip' column -> Facet -> Text Facet. Removed data entries that are located outside of Illinois (10014, 46319, 46322, 46494, 46410, 53061, 54971, 80439, 90067, and 91706). Removed by selecting an invalid zip code on Facet, All -> Edit rows -> Remove matching rows.
2. On 'Results' column -> Facet -> Text Facet. Removed data entries recorded as 'Out of Business', 'No Entry', 'Not Ready', and 'Business Not Located.'
3. On 'License #' column -> Facet -> Text Facet. Some data entries recorded the facility's license number as '0', which is not ideal. Therefore, we removed it from our dataset. Select '0' on Facet, All -> Edit rows -> Remove matching rows. Then, we transformed the data type of 'License #' to a number: Edit cells -> Common transforms -> To number. We found four entries with no data, which were also removed: select (blank) -> All -> Edit rows -> Remove matching rows.
4. On 'Facility Type' column, we cleaned the entries in multiple steps. First, we capitalized all our entries to reduce duplication: Edit cells -> Common transforms -> To uppercase. Using a cluster, we edited the columns representing the same category. Key Collision + Fingerprint method: GROCERY/GAS STATION vs. GROCERY(GAS STATION) and CHILDREN'S SERVICES FACILITY vs. CHILDRENS SERVICES FACILITY. Key Collision + n-Gram Fingerprint method: GAS STATION/STORE vs. GAS STATION STORE, ROOFTOPS vs. ROOF TOPS, 1023-CHILDREN'S SERVICES FACILITY vs. 1023 CHILDREN'S SERVICES FACILITY, ROOFTOP vs. ROOF TOP, and GROCERY & RESTAURANT vs. GROCERY/RESTAURANT. Key Collision + Metaphone3 method:
